hey everyone in some of our past videos
we've shown you how to paint a car
starting from bare metal today we want
to show you something different how to
repaint your car this is going to be a
different more budget friendly approach
with minimal component removal that
might be applicable to your daily driver
a car you want to clean up a bit to sell
or if you're not doing a full frame off
restoration our candidate is this fox
body Mustang we're using it because the
hood and passenger door door are in
pretty rough shape but the fenders
driver door and quarters are fairly
straight also we're going to paint it
with the same color which eliminates
needing to do jams with that let's get
[Music]
started all right so the first step is
to take a good hard look at the car and
come up with a plan for repair the hood
has clear coat peeling some surface rust
popping through the paint but look
straight otherwise we're going to strip
it to bare metal and take it through the
full process
ACC the passenger door has a dent and a
rusty spot underneath the mirror we'll
need to do some body work address the
rust and then Prime the repair before
moving on the passenger fender and
driver door have a couple scratches IND
dents that will need a skim coat of body
filler and then primed as well finally
the bumper quarter and Driver Fender are
straight so they only need to get sanded
with 600 grip before moving on our
general approach to this is similar to
how a production shop might handle it
this isn't the car to do a full
restoration to we just want to clean it
up make it a bit more presentable and a
cool thing to cruise around it so now
that we have a plan we can move into the
actual work and start our
[Music]
repairs so first thing we're going to do
is address this problem area we're going
to start by taking some of this molding
off this mirror to do that we're going
to have to pop inside the car take off
the interior door panel then we can
start getting to work
with the mirror out of the way the next
step is to grind off the old rust so we
can do some metal work on the panel
immediately we realize that someone has
been here before as I grind into
previous body work not a huge problem
but never great to find we just have to
grind all that form of filler out before
moving on knowing we also need to strip
the hood which will then require primer
we can start that repair as well it's a
good practice to try and bring all your
repairs up through the stages at the
same time that way as you move through
the process on various panels you'll be
using similar tools at the same time you
could move panel by panel but it's less
efficient we use thect and a red 80 grit
drum to get the hood back to Bare Metal
you can also see we taped up the edges
of the adjacent panels so we don't
accidentally damage
them just like the door we find some old
filler hiding on the hood it actually
was in decent shape but the best move is
to strip it too so we know it's been
applied correctly we bump up to the 120
grit drum on the
and finish stripping and conditioning
the hood
metal with our two main areas of damage
strip to Bare Metal we can jump back on
the door and continue the repair okay so
we sanded down the door we got rid of
some of the old bad body work we know
that we have a low spot here it's high
all around this area so what we're going
to do is we're going to take the Mig 90
weld a small coupon right here and then
take our locking plier Slide Hammer pull
on this low spot while tapping down our
highs so now I can go ahead and apply
outward pressure which is going to help
bring out the low while hitting our high
spots right around here and drive the
metal towards the low
spot for any metal work the closer you
can get the damaged area back to
straight in metal the better that way
you can limit the thickness of body
filler that will need to be applied
which makes for a longer lasting repair
with a couple passes we get this
straight with the metal work completed
we feather out the damaged area on the
door with 80 grit on the dsb then wipe
down with pre painting prep and start
applying body
filler while the door filler is
hardening up we can move some of our
other panels towards the filler stage
with the hood now stripped we need to
address the rust that has been popping
through the old paint all right so we
got the Mustang Hood all stripped it's
looking solid it's pretty straight one
area that's going to need to be
addressed no problem something we did
run into however is a little bit of
surface rust and pitting all across the
hood now the abrasive tools won't get to
that right so da dsb SCT nothing is
going to get down into those little pits
so what we're going to do to address
that is we're going to use our fast Edge
and what that's going to do is it's
going to treat all those areas so that
we can go ahead move on with the process
put epoxy primer over top and then get
this thing into paint now the steps are
very simple first we're going to wipe
this whole thing down with pre wipe it
off make sure it's completely dry then
we're going to take our fast etch spray
it liberally over the whole Hood make
sure it stays wet for about a half an
hour then we'll go ahead wipe it off
with some more pre we can move on to
epoxy
primer now we can go ahead and spray
[Music]
it this will convert the rust to iron
phosphate and allow us to epoxy over top
with the hood now in a stable State we
can continue to do the repair on it and
a few other spots around the car using
the same techniques as the door grind if
needed feather with the dsb coat with
body filler as we work through the body
filler we do several passes of blocking
with 80 grit on the dsv and checking
with guide
coat guide coat is great because it will
identify your low spots so you know to
either continue blocking or apply more
filler we work from 80 grit up through
320 grit making sure to remove scratches
from the previous grit as we move
forward once we get everything straight
we can move to the next step
primer so as you all know there are lots
of options when moving from body work to
primer epoxy urethane polyester and so
on for this since we have the hood
completely in bare metal we're going to
apply our optiflow roll-on epoxy primer
since it has great adhesion to both
metal and body filler this kit is also
great because you can do it in your
driveway or garage without the need for
a compressor booth and spray gun the
hood is pretty straightforward as the
whole panel needs to be coated when you
have to Prime mid panel it's a slightly
different approach when taping you can
use the edges to give you a nice hard
line to work up to if one's close if
it's right in the middle like our door
repair or Fender don't create an
arbitrary tape Edge and then Prime right
up to it you want to feather The Edge as
much as possible whether using a gun or
in our case a roller that way you can
sand the primer back and have a seamless
transition that you won't see later with
that in mind we put all our panels into
aox
primer once again we can coat them and
guide coat before we start sanding so we
can make sure everything is staying nice
and even we let everything sit for a day
or two so we can move on to blocking
with the dsb starting with 180 220 and
then 320
git for all areas the block doesn't
quite fit such as these indents on the
hood we use a red scuff pad to get these
areas ready for
[Music]
urethane
all right so we got the Mustang through
the epoxy stage everything sanded up to
320 grit and looking pretty good couple
breakthroughs but that's okay cuz we're
going to move on to urethane so our
urethane is going to be our last coat of
primer and it's going to fill in any
remaining sanding scratches and give us
one more chance to catch any wavy lines
we're going to continue with the
optiflow system and what's awesome about
it is that you can do this right in your
driveway and the only spraying will be
from an aerosol can all right so we
wiped down the car with pre painting
prep and now we can go ahead mix this up
4 to one start rolling it on the car now
some of you might be asking is it
necessary to use all these priming steps
and the answer is really a case-by casee
basis production shops will typically
just fix the repair like our door and
coat with urethane only but our Hood was
bare metal and it's definitely ideal to
coat it with epoxy first then urethane
ultimately it's up to you but our
results turned out great and this is the
workflow we used just like the epoxy it
rolls on nice and
easy
while the primer gets hard over the next
day or so we're going to address some of
the other items on the car we'll need to
remove these taped on moldings and some
faulty Hardware that didn't come apart
during
disassembly to get these moldings off
you have a couple options you could just
try forcibly ripping them off but that
takes a lot of force and can end up
adding waves to the panel underneath
another option is a spreader which works
great on small stuff like our LX badge
and Ford logo but is tough on these long
moldings the best option would be to use
fishing line but ours keeps breaking so
we're going to use welding wire this
works for us because we're planning on
painting the car but if you just want to
remove them stick with the fishing line
so you don't damage the paint
underneath you can see I had to create
handles with some vice grips because
these things were really stuck on here
with the moldings off we have to deal
with sticky residue Left Behind the SAT
has an eraser wheel attachment that's
perfect for this
put the tool on the lowest setting and
work down the panel avoid sitting on one
spot as it can add some heat and burn
the paint after the first pass we go
back with some pre painting prep thect
and a gray scuff pad to get any
remaining
glue switching back over to primer
everything is coated in a last layer of
guide coat and block the 320 on the
[Music]
DSP now we can finally move on to our
next step prepping the car for paint in
keeping the car moving through the
stages together now we can sand the
whole car up to 600 we start by
aggressively sanding the peeling clear
coat from a previous paint job with 400
grit on a DA then we switch over to 600
on an interface pad and sand the whole
car including our blocked
[Music]
primer the goal here is to provide our
next step with some tooth to adhere to
and to remove any previous sanding grit
scratches so we don't see them in our
final result during this you might find
some small imperfections you hadn't
noticed in the previous steps such as
cracked paint something peeling or a
rock chip for those smaller affected
areas we address them by using the same
steps as before sanding out the damage
getting the affected area to 320 priming
them and then sanding with 600 along
with the rest of the panel all right so
we're wrapping up Wy work on the Mustang
before we get it into final paint I want
to give it one last check to make sure
everything's super straight to do that I
grab perfect panel check fluid spray it
on the door and I can look down the
panel check out the flection which would
indicate highs lows bad body
work this stuff's awesome because unlike
water or something similar it'll stay on
here for about an hour and we can see
that the light is going nice and
straight which tells us our body work is
super flat and we can move
on our last step before moving into
paint is to run over the entire car with
a gray scuff pad and make sure there's
nothing left shiny on the
body once again this will ensure that we
get good mechanical adhesion for our top
coats and with our car straight sanded
and smooth we can move into
[Music]
paint with everything ready to go we can
start taping the car up to get into the
booth now this is a bit different from
things we've shown you in the past as we
still have headlights a couple pieces of
trim and glass still on the car as
mentioned earlier we're not doing a full
Resto on this mustang so the tip here is
disassemble as much as you can to get
the desired result your classic 68
Camaro calls for more than the beater 98
Civic you daily
drive with that said we can make sure to
hide any tape lines beneath the trim
back tape to provide soft edges and use
foam tape in our jams to seamlessly go
from our fresh new paint job to our
Factory
one once the car's in the booth taped up
wipe down the entire car with pre
painting prep or wax and grease remover
to make sure everything's perfectly
clean and then follow up with a tack rag
this will make sure no dust dirt or lint
is on the body of the car for this job
we wanted to show you how it pro paints
so we invited our friend and prob body
guy/ painter ready to spray the Mustang
so we got some Eastwood epoxy here that
if we over Reduce by 20% we can make
into
sealer so what sealer will do is just
give us a nice wet bed over any
imperfection just to really lock
everything down make sure we don't have
anything that's going to cause an issue
when we go to clear our gun settings are
1.7 needle 25 psi 50% overlap and we
start with a dry tack coat and then a
heavier wet
[Music]
coat now at this point in the day we
simply ran out of time to continue
painting which really isn't ideal our
plan was to lay down sealer and then top
coat immediately but we ended up laying
down the sealer scuffing with 600 and
then moving to Ray shop to finish up the
following
weekend back to the car in the booth
ready for base coat we mix the OEM base
coat up and fill our spray gun raised
gun settings are 1.3 needle 15 to 20 psi
10-in fan 50% overlap medium wet we
start spraying and get three solid coats
on the car with 15-minute flash times in
[Music]
between all right well we grabbed our
sun gun now we're going to turn the
lights off turn the fan off so you can
hear me a little bit we're going to go
see how our coverage is looking so we're
just looking to see if anything is see
through we see any blotches spots or
anything crazy poking
through so it's a little modly on the
hood so we're going to turn the fans on
and I'm going to do a little bit of a
drop coat I'm going to use the same
trigger same needle same pressure I'm
just going to pull the gun up a little
bit to let the metallics really cover up
anything and dry
[Music]
uniformly
this is my first time using Eastwood
anything kind of paint and uh coverage
was pretty good laid out pretty good
given it's a small car it's a fox body
and a convertible so we don't have to
worry about the roof I'd say we have a
quarter of a gallon left so put that on
the Shelf in the corner for the next
time a grocery car gets it or something
all right ready for clear we're using
the uh Eastwood 4:1 premium show clear
so that's four parts clear one part
hardener that's it we're going to spray
it with a 13 tip probably like 29 PSI if
I had to guess but car's looking good in
base we're ready to go we're not going
to tack it off it's a pretty heavily
metallic color so I'm worried if I tack
it you'll get some white marks in it it
and everything so we're just going to
let it all seal up with some clear and
we'll be good to
[Music]
roll all right all done clearing the
Mustang I'm happy with how it went
bumpers even look good for being on the
car that's not my favorite way to do it
really had to push the show car clear we
used a medium hardener and uh I was
calling for mid 70s today it's 82 in the
booth you want to be on the back side of
that you kind of want to give yourself a
little time for in between coats so you
can go mix some more and uh it came out
flat came out nice and shiny which is
what we're looking for today we let the
car sit in the booth for about an hour
untape and then bring it back to
Eastwood for some final assembly
and wao this thing looks better than
ever all of our heavily damaged areas
delaminated clear and Rusty spots are
now in the distant past the best part is
we had our Pro step in and painted in a
downdraft Booth which let us reassemble
and we haven't even had to do any paint
correction the OEM paint is a great
match and let us move forward without
having to cut in or blow the car apart
anymore
[Music]
now could this job have been even better
yes we could have done some more
disassembly and spent another month on
the Bodywork but it's not what the job
called for and we already have a video
showing you all that we wanted to
illustrate how you might do a simplified
version of our full paint process on
something like your daily driver or
budget
build and to get great results like this
and paint your car any of our thousands
of options head over to eastwood.com
[Music]
n